hey everybody and welcome to today's
episode of learning from the pros
joining me today is JD Garcia he is the
head of revops and strategy at
impactable and today he's going to be
sharing his 10 tips for designing a
LinkedIn funnel architecture welcome JD
hey glad to be here I'm po man this is
our our first official content uh piece
we're doing together um and like you are
a wealth of information if folks don't
know about you you post a lot of great
content on LinkedIn and I feel like you
have really unique insights based on the
the depth that you go in your post and
I'm really excited to like kind of pick
your brain and and go a little bit
deeper in this conversation together
yeah
so why don't we kick off first with like
your background and just kind of give
some context for people they're not
familiar with you yeah yeah so no
experience in marketing I started
working in video rental so Hollywood
Video Blockbuster medical sales time
share
telecommunications um and then landed in
Market so it was originally just like a
side hustle so I wanted to make like
extra cash I was posting on LinkedIn I
met with Justin and started getting into
this whole like kind of LinkedIn World
um and I really liked it um I like
Puzzles a lot so like putting things
together and like figuring out kind of
like puzzle like puzzle games even um
are really excited to me and that's how
I kind of feel like marketing is so it
was like understanding the different
pieces and like okay if you put this
here it can do this and it's all like
just kind of like a giant puzzle so I
had no marketing background or anything
before let's say five years ago and and
then I just went deep like I just dove
in on the deep end on the LinkedIn side
so people like AJ Wilcox whove been
around for a while like super technical
super knowledgeable but you know five
years ago kind of came in and just spent
like hundreds of hours crying hitting my
keyboard like you know screaming at the
monitor trying to uh figure stuff out
and I still do this sometimes so you
never you never quite get it but yeah
all all of that kind of like learning
experience and now I just kind of share
like my T my headline says you know I
know a little bit about LinkedIn ads and
that's what I share that's awesome I
think you know a lot more than you give
yourself credit for for sure I and just
like before we dive into your first tip
what a great analogy like you think
about it like a puzzle piece that is the
key because once you can think about it
from that perspective of a puzzle piece
then you can try to figure out what are
the pieces that are going to make sense
to form the you know the puzzle that
you're trying to create yep yeah yeah
it's exactly that and we we can get into
this so like when I think about so like
this whole thing of like LinkedIn
architecture this one guy commented on
one of my posts when I talked about it
and he's like architecture is supposed
to be for like buildings and stuff like
he was just kind of like you know
whatever just rage baiting me or
something but I was like no I mean like
architecture is anything you build like
you can architect like when people talk
about AWS or like any of the
hyperscalers they're like Cloud
Architects and it's because like you're
just taking these different pieces and
you're creating something with it and
the the whole goal with like thinking
about your campaign architecture is
you're trying to build like momentum for
yourself and even when I talk to
somebody for the first time and they're
like hey what should we start with you
know we have this product or we have
this thing I'm like what are you
currently doing now that has success
let's piggy back off of that to start
because you already have some momentum
built with that we can take that and we
can help to you know have some
incremental lift on that as an initial
kind of like PC but this whole idea of
like LinkedIn architecture campaign
architecture like really what it comes
down to is like how do I design this
like funnel or how do I design this flow
in the way that's going to get me the
best output real
simple I love that yeah and like for
everyone listening that you approach ads
with like a spaghetti mindset and you
don't feel like you have a lot of
consistency and control over like the
inputs and the outputs this episode is
for you because the the big difference
between paid and organic and paid is
nothing more than guaranteed
distribution but with paid you're trying
to channel that guaranteed distribution
in a strategic way to the best of your
abilities which a lot of things are out
of your control but to the best of your
abilities you can try to create some
sort of mechanism of like consistent
predictable scale which I think is the
big thing and a great segue to uh the
first tip for today's
conversation yes let's talk about tip
number one outline your variables all
your variables AKA put out all your
puzzle pieces on the table get
everything kind of out there like one of
the things that's really important for
this you may be thinking like oh my
budget right like I need a budget yes
you need a budget and sometimes you have
something earmarked for that but you
really need to like understand your
audience size and accessibility so like
what does that look like like you can go
into campaign manager you don't need to
spend any money or add your credit card
or whatever but you can go into campaign
manager load in whatever list you want
do whatever third party Integrations you
want to do and you can start bu building
out some of these audience sizes and
then get some ideas in terms of like how
active and accessible those audience
audiences are but you need to know this
you need to know how large the audience
is you need to know like maybe how you
want to segment them like know the CEO
of 10,000 person companies they're not
going to fill out your leadem form so
don't even bother you know maybe find
another point of entry kind of like take
a realistic approach like okay what are
the different audiences what's the
budget that I have how do I want to do
my targeting what content do I have what
the content gaps that I have like if you
think about this from like the the B2B
you know prospects perspective they're
not hanging around LinkedIn waiting for
some awesome ad to go click on you know
click on and sign up they have problems
like they have other things that they're
dealing with right now and maybe the
thing the problem you're trying to solve
for maybe it's number 72 on their list
of things that they need to get done now
you want to move that up the priority
list but you're not going to get them to
just do something you know immediately
um so you need to kind of think about
okay well what are the pieces of content
that somebody needs to see before they
would likely take the action that I want
what does that sequence kind of look
like so you're thinking about this
you're thinking about how you're going
to track these things so you're you're
outlining all of those kind of variables
and these are the different pieces that
you're going to start with to start um
kind of like whiteboarding this and I
I'll move to step two or tip to but any
questions or comments you want to add to
that yeah I I have so many but I feel
like a lot of them will get answered in
the in the subsequent tips so let's move
on to tip two what I'll do for everyone
listening as well cuz JD you're going
through all the different variables and
you're like content audience size like
all these things in the show notes if
you guys are watching the the video
right now we'll have it in the
corresponding article written out so if
you want to just kind of like follow
along you can reference that uh because
the master is going at uh at at his at
his speed right now so if you guys are
are uh you know little earlier on then
you can reference that so yeah how funny
would that be if we just told everyone
like hey this is not going to be
anywhere you better catch it this is a
one time watch video everyone like
somebody watching right now that's like
driving in the car they'll like they'll
like pull over on the side of the road
yeah no I gotta record this somewhere
yeah yeah start writing in their notes
yeah um all right so let's go to step
two like step two is just like tip two
like whiteboard this like if you want to
be fancy and cool you can use figma or
Miro or whatever other visualization
tool you want to use but like you
honestly don't need that to start get a
pen and paper and a spiral notebook or
you know pull a piece of paper from your
printer or get a whiteboard and just try
to like map this thing out like visually
like does this actually kind of make
sense oh what you have 10 blocks up
front for like all the leaden forms
you're going to run like when you look
at that do you think like man this is
great uh promotions in my near future
probably not so you want to you want to
start kind of like mapping this out and
like how things are actually going to
flow and your variables are going to
help you to do that so you let's say you
figured out your audience size and
you're like okay my you know my Tam is
you know I don't know half a million uh
but the one I want to start with and
kind of narrow in on maybe there's
65,000 people so I have this audience of
you know kind of 65,000 people like what
is the piece of content or what things
do they need to see in order for them to
interested enough to take some type of
action that allows me to funnel them to
another layer like what are those things
what does that kind of look like and you
kind of map this out so like this is
what I think they should see kind of
first these are the different things I
expect them to maybe do and if they do
these things these are kind of the next
things that I would say and you can kind
of plot this out and figure out like
what are the different things like types
of Engagement that they're going to do
how this should actually uh kind of flow
um and then if this just makes sense
like it if you're kind of looking at
this now make like if this makes sense
can be a little bit dangerous especially
if you don't have any like previous
knowledge because like I don't know if
you're a doctor and you can look at
somebody like ah this doesn't make sense
but like if you're I don't know you're a
custodian there and then you come look
at a medical chart like this doesn't
feel right like your intuition is not
going to be as great uh as as the doctor
um but the the flow like at a basic
level the flow should kind of make sense
and you want to you want to whiteboard
that out I'm going to go to tip three
because this ties in to tip two and I'll
just take a quick pause at that point
yep but tip three is going to be like
kind of setting what your goals are
going to be for each of those kind of
different stages now hey shocker or
maybe not a shocker but the measures of
success you use for a top of funnel
campaign group are going to be different
than the ones you use for your bottom of
funnel campaign group or for your cross-
selling and upselling or if you're focus
on Deal velocity each campaign group
group and then each campaign is going to
have its own kind of goal and you think
about this like a sports team like you
know if you take soccer for example like
not every single player has the same
goal like each person has a different
role that they need to play and like how
does a team win well the team wins when
everyone does their specific job to the
best of their ability right and that's
and that's where you win so when you
think about this and you think about
your different campaigns um each
campaign is going to have a goal and I
won't go into every single one but I'll
just give you a little tidbit for
example you know if I'm running a topple
funnel campaign to like a large cold
audience my goal is to get enough
engagement or to get engagement from
that campaign to be able to funnel
people in for as like little money as
possible because LinkedIn is like all
the other platforms out there it will
spend your money like they will like do
whatever you want like they're not going
to tell you no like audience expansion
Audience Network on all your or 20
million audience size you can launch go
for it go yeah so they're not going to
tell you so like you need you need to
know what your uh what your goals are
going to be for each of these campaigns
in advance and then is each one of those
is doing what it's supposed to do it's
going to help you get towards where you
want to go so quick pause yeah so much
to unpack so just for everyone listening
like JD just mentioned like tip one is
like you need to outline your variables
so what are the different requisite
components within this architecture this
funnel architecture that you're creating
for yourself one really tactical thing
for everyone listening and kind of like
an analogy that I use with my team and
how to train them on strategy and how to
get them to think outside the box
because if you're a junior person
listening to this it might be hard or if
you're working in house or whatever the
case might be like your newer strategy
like it might be hard to juggle all
these different pieces it can be a bit
overwhelming so one way I like to frame
this is anytime
you anytime you enter a new role or you
take on a new client imagine you just
entered a new video game and that video
game has a set of rules right that will
determine hey this is Success this is
failure Etc so like before even getting
down to the base level of like
understanding the variables within your
funnel architecture first understand the
rules of the game you're playing so that
means what are the constraints
leadership has given you they probably
have a pipeline goal that's part of the
game right how can I get that pipeline
go can I get you one deal for a million
doar and job well done or is it I need
to get you a million dollars in pipeline
but it has to be from these certain
regions okay can it be equally split
between North America and am Mia or can
I just get you it all in North America
so what are the rules what are the
constraints of the game that you've been
given first and then once you understand
the context there from the business
level then understanding who you're
going after like what you know who are
they what they do Etc all that product
marketing content so once you do that
now when you get into actually designing
your funnel architecture you'll have so
much more visibility on okay wait a
second and like this ties so well with
your point around like understanding
your campaign goals because then you
know okay based on the like the rules of
the game that I'm playing like I'll give
you a real example uh there was a client
that they they shifted towards like a
completely ungated motion like ungated
content and whether like we talk gated
versus ungated like philosophically is a
conversation for another day but like
with their rules for their business
their constraints their leadership was
only giving them credit for the things
they can directly associate that they
had a digital paper trail so by
understanding that one rule of their
game they know they have to do leg gen
yeah and like starting from there first
I like when I kind of walk through that
analogy with like my team members and
like clients I can see like the the
peace of mind and like oh wait a second
I get it you know like whether it's
right or wrong that's like a whole other
conversation but that's the game you've
been given you know what I mean and it's
like now with that context now that you
understand the the actual game you're
playing and you understand the market
you're in and the people you're serving
now when it comes time to like actually
design your funnel architecture because
what we're talking about here is we're
trying to create an experience right
like you mentioned it it's like your
priority 7 if you're lucky in terms of
like what's going on especially if it's
a cool audience like they they don't
even know they have a problem in the
first place it's like Blissful ignorance
you know so it's like how can you
actually now start to like meet them
halfway and kind of put these different
things together so just to recap y
outline your variables get clear on your
audience size your budget how you're
going to actually reach this person what
are the types of content you want to
showcase in front of them then from
there step two whiteboard your funnel
like We'll add examples in the show
notes Here of like some examples that
you've had JD that you've posted on
LinkedIn that are awesome yeah just to
like kind of give people visual
reference but like actually you know
putting this now all into play and then
now finally setting your campaign goals
for each stage I love that you touched
on this because so many people measure
all campaigns equally and it's such I
mean it's like it's apples oranges and
bananas you know what I mean like it's
completely different and a table like
100% 100% I'm curious like on on the
Campa go side and just kind of speaking
to these these three tips here like when
you're going through the like let's say
somebody comes to you let's just
Workshop this right so I come to you and
I'm like hey I've got $10,000 a month in
in budget U my goal is to drive $1,000
in qualified pipeline I've given you the
constraints now so you now understand
from the business context and then from
there uh I tell you you know my ICP is
let's just say it's like product
managers now from there are there like
certain things you're thinking of like
when you're going through those first
three steps of like early signs
of this is going to work this isn't
going to work or kind of like traps yeah
I'm looking to see like do you have an
established product Market fit like are
we going after is this like a new
offering for your company or is this
something that like you've been running
for a while and now you're trying to
scale like a good indicator of success
is if you're already having success on
other channels and now you're looking to
like plug in LinkedIn or like beef up
LinkedIn because you've already
validated this like people have already
like are willing to give you money uh in
order to do this and this is more for
like established companies it's harder
when it's like a startup where it's
primarily been like founder Le growth
and they have access to certain people
that like you know would be extremely
difficult to get access to through
marketing and then they tried to bring
that thinking into marketing be like
yeah let's go after the you know CTF
of um like whoa whoa whoa like you know
you're not going to get that same level
but um I'm thinking to I'm looking to
see if they've done this stuff before if
they had success with it before I'm
trying to understand like what their um
ability to then turn that lead into
pipeline looks like because like
regardless like we're marketers right so
like we're focused on the marketing side
but like I'm sure you know as well as I
do if they can't take a lead and turn it
into Revenue it doesn't matter how good
a job you do as a marketer like they
still need to be able to convert that
into Pipeline and into Revenue so I
still ask about those things because
that's gonna it's going to matter Maybe
not today but it will in you know a
couple of months and then I try to
understand like what the tracking uh
maybe looks like for them so like cppy
is really good Revenue attribution
reports really good just to give us kind
of like more visibility um and then I
try to get an understanding of like the
support they have from their leadership
because that's also really helpful is a
person writing the check somebody that's
a non-market marketer and thinks
marketing is dumb like okay well we got
like we have an uphill battle and like
we need to consider that when we're
deciding how we build this like to your
point earlier if we need like Direct One
toone
attribution then yeah probably Leen
forms because I know the person that
filled that out is directly tied you
know versus kind of like okay we have a
viewr conversion like yeah you went
ahead and put the you know one click one
day click one day View and you're being
really strict about it uh but that view
through conversion you know when we had
it it came in you know as organic or it
came in as direct you know and it's
harder to kind of make some of those
cases with knowing what you're up
against like what the person you're
talking to what what they're measured on
like what's going to like get you
promotion what's going to you know say
you're doing a good job um and then
internally what does that support look
like for you for this like those are
things you have to think about when
you're deciding how to build this yeah I
love it so we outlined the variables we
whiteboard our funnel we set our
campaign goals for each stage what's
number four tip number four is create
ads that match the funnel stage so very
basic and I know like there's a lot of
talk on this and like you said earlier
this isn't like a you know right or
wrong or like U maybe like morally
correct or whatever but like I know I
know some people say like okay funnel
stages are not like that like you know
buy you know bdb prospects kind of
Bounce Around they do their own thing
and I'm like yeah they do but that's
really hard to build a funnel around
like that uh so okay like I get it um
you know they do different things but
the the whole idea about creating
content for their funnel stays is you're
just trying to as as good as you can
you're just trying to match content with
an action that somebody took so here's a
good question to ask should somebody
that visited your LinkedIn company page
11 months ago so they visited back in
October of 2023 should that person see
the same content as somebody who visited
your pricing page yesterday M I think
the answer is pretty obvious no like it
should be a different experience based
on the action that the person took does
that mean that they're all linear like
no not not everybody just goes through
this pretty little funnel and then they
put out you know how did you hear about
us a LinkedIn ad and here's the link I
clicked on the three dots and I got it
for you like that' be fantastic they're
not going to do that but you want to you
want to create the content that's going
to match basically the level of action
that they took so top of funnel they
haven't taken any action you're showing
up in their feed and now people are
seeing more ads than they had been
before you know that's another
conversation uh you know organic content
creators know what I'm talking about but
you're showing up unannounced in their
feed and you want to have something of
value that captures their interest like
all I'm trying to do for like really
cold layer campaigns is I'm just trying
to Peak somebody's curiosity I just want
to get you curious enough that you go hm
and you decide to go look around most
people are not going to click on ads
let's say you have a great click through
rate let's say you have a 1%
clickthrough rate you know what that
actually means that means that like
what's it like 10 people out of a
thousand who saw your ad actually
clicked on your ad like that means
9,990 other people didn't click on your
ad and that's I'm talking about website
visit not thought leadership you have a
1% click the rate on your engagement
campaign for your thought leadership
like you need to shut that down
yeah yeah it's a problem but you you
want to go ahead and match like you want
to match that so you when you think
about this and you think about the
content that you create you're just
you're just trying to do that for like
the funnel stage that they're in if they
taken higher intent actions then yeah
like you want to have things that are
more you know kind of direct does that
make sense absolutely yeah makes perfect
sense and then are you thinking you
would take it a step further if if
there's like segmentation by Persona so
now it's like for the you know Persona
one product manager you're going to show
this type of content this type of
message and you know Persona 2 so on and
so forth yeah CFO is not going to care
about the the finance person isn't going
to care about the same thing as like the
procurement person or the product person
or the salesperson or like these
different personas like they have they
have different things that they care
about uh now depending on your budget
and you know I was talking about this
today like you have to pick and choose
where you're going to do your
segmentation you can't segment
everything on a tiny budget like I want
to segment by noram Mia and APAC and
then I want to segment by you know
product manager CFO and then the person
you know in you know the business leader
or something and then I want to segment
by product and then I want to segment by
funnel stage like it's a multiplier like
before you know it like each campaign's
going to get you know 42 cents a day as
a daily budget which you can't even do
by the way but yeah so you want to think
about the the content that you create
and then you want to think about too
where you can find common denominators
so be smart about some of these things
too if you know that you can't get you
know hyper segmented then you're going
to need to triage and make decisions
about what you
segment all right so tip number
five tip number five is kind of a joke
but it's important like don't forget
attribution which like everyone probably
isn't going to forget because you're
trying to measure and see like what
works and what doesn't work I didn't
come up with this but I really really
like this so air from hockey stack had
said one time in one of his posts he's
like hey if you are considering buying
hockey stack because you want to prove
if a channel works or not he's like
don't even buy it he's like don't buy it
for that reason he's like where you want
it is if you're trying to get signals
and understand like what in your
marketing is is working and what is
contributing and I thought that was
really interesting because there's that
saying in marketing which I know I'm a
5-year-old marketer so I haven't been
around long enough to say that back in
my day this was a saying but I've heard
this it's like half of all marketing
works you just don't know you know which
half yeah so so the attribution thing
like yeah I I do want some last touch
attribution because I do want to see
like you know what had an influence on
that but I I also want to understand to
the things that you know happen along
the way so a little bit of a tip here
and you got to be careful with this but
what I like to do for like the really
high intent actions is I like to create
like a duplicate conversion event so
what I'll do is I'll have a conversion
event that's last touch last campaign
that has a high conversion value
associated with it and then I'll have a
second one that is a last touch each
campaign that has a 90day click and a
90day view with like one-cent conversion
value or like a really low conversion
value and then I can kind of see like
you know as I have my funnel bill I can
kind of see like the conversions like
what are the different pieces of content
that contributed to that conversion that
took place over the last 90 days whether
that's views or whether that's clicks
now I say you have to be careful with
that because if you're using the API to
pull data out from LinkedIn it's going
to count all conversions exactly the
same so it doesn't matter if it's last
touch each last touch last like or if it
this one's a book demo or this one's a
register for like a webinar it's all the
same it's all clumped together as like
conversions um and then even in the
dashboard if you're if you're managing
this inside campaign manager and if
you're doing the breakdown it's if you
have so many conversions in there it
just becomes unreadable at a certain
point so you want to be careful with
this but you you want to make sure that
you're tracking uh attribution both in
the platform both you know in your own
system self-reported if you're using
gong to listen to sales calls and figure
out if somebody mentions link l in like
you want to kind of tile these things
together together and of course there's
also Cappy and revenue attribution um
report which are also helpful yeah this
is this is a really big one I think at
the end of the day like V1 that I always
recommend to everyone is like just
measure directly attributed and Blended
that's kind of like the go-to yeah okay
for the things that we are trying to get
a one for one out of okay how is it
performing you know things that operate
in that in that in that op like that way
but most things it's not going to be a
one for one so instead like Baseline how
much did you invest last quarter how
much did you generate overall paid and
organic is it going up is it going down
is my cost per going down is my pipe to
spend increasing and I love that metric
pipe to spend because it's a it's a
metric that monitors the efficiency of
your efforts if you notice quarter of
quarter pipe to spend is increasing that
means you're doing a great job you're
your paid dollars are being more
efficient in response to like blending
it with the organic and direct where
you're not getting that direct
Association so for everyone in the room
like if you're not tracking Blended and
last touch already start there that's
like V1 and then if you need more trust
more confidence more like
validation then you can start to
graduate into like some of these tools
right but even then with like LinkedIn
you could just use the LinkedIn
demographic report as like an additional
touch Point yeah for like more
verification and then like finally if
you need even more verification then it
becomes like these tools but oftentimes
if people skip it just like they get on
these tools but then they don't realize
these tools like there's a ramp up
period of like when they can actually
become usable because they have to like
ingest a certain amount of data uh your
CRM instance isn't like actually
configured properly so it's like it's
like the grass is greener on the other
side you know and then there's always
something in your way and you can't just
like actually make forward progress yeah
I think it was a I forget his name it's
guy named Chris but he says the magic
you're looking for is in the work that
you're avoiding I say that to say that
if your crm's a mess you should probably
start
there I love this I love this all right
so I think we're on H tip number six
tick number six we're 40 minutes in well
I don't know how long this one is but
we're we're making progress okay I'm
going to try to go a little a little
quicker on these so tip six like get
efficient before you start getting uh
fancy so like there's the there's the
two sides to this there's like the
efficiency side and then there's
Effectiveness side for like marketing
marketing Effectiveness is like yeah my
my pipe dis spends increasing like
obviously I'm being effective but before
that you need to be efficient so like
think about like a car for example like
if you need to drive I don't know 50
miles it's going to be way harder for
you to drive those if all your tires are
flat and you haven't changed rules oil
and you have a quarter tank so you need
to be efficient before you get effective
so what does that mean like there's
there's likely waste inside of your
campaigns that you want to address so
that you can make sure you're getting
the most out of your budget and that you
can be as efficient as possible on your
path to getting effective I mean you'd
be surprised the people you know who are
listening uh probably not you soio
because you see it but how much waste I
see in ad accounts just like little
things and you may not think like oh
there's this little thing here there's
this little thing here but yeah that
that has a multiplied effect so you have
1% 1% 1% 1% like it ends up being quite
quite um you know in inefficient so you
want to be efficient yeah I'll go to tip
number seven if that's cool with you
yeah that's good okay so get efficient
and then tip number seven like retarget
like a pro what does that actually mean
well kind of talked about it a little
bit when we were talking about create
ads that match the funnel stage but you
want to match the right content with the
audience at the right like at the right
time if that sounds hard it's because it
is it's not always easy to to do this
but I'll give you an example um I'll
give you an example that's like fairly
fairly easy to do if you talk about your
high intent audience your high intent
audience is going to be someone or
people that have taken like they've
really kind of raised their hand like
maybe they've engaged in your top of
funnel they've engaged in your middle of
funnel they've taken some other you know
High intent action like your bottom of
Auto audience can be like let's say a
zero to 30-day audience depending on
what your audience size is but it's
going to be a zero to day 30-day
audience because I I probably don't want
to beat people over the head with high
friction ctas for too long uh because
that can also have an opposite effect um
so I want to be smart about it so I have
kind of like a high intent layer which
is my kind of zero to 30-day audience
where they're probably going to see
other content but they're also going to
have this offr for them uh that's built
and then I would have let's say like a
180 day audience where I'm going to run
content that's not going to be as
expensive but can still keep me top of
mind like what does that mean text ads
are a good example do text ads as a
website visit objective do the manual
bidding whatever it has set your daily
budget to you know 20 bucks 50 bucks
doesn't matter because it's not going to
spend it anyway and then just have your
retargeting audience that's kind of
parked there and if they you know see it
or they go back to your website and you
have your retargeting funnel built out
properly they're going to get pulled
back into your
funnel anyway um but you just want to be
smart about how you structure your you
know targeting audiences this is such a
big one in B2B specifically because
depending on your sales cycle like we
have a client that's in the government
space they have a 36 month sales cycle
36 months staying top of mind I mean is
truly half the battle and you know not
to n it out too hard here but one of the
things that like I really geek out on
with with paid social platforms and just
ads in general but specifically paid
social is when you really think about it
like these tools like you can
manufacture celebrity I can pay money to
be famous to a very very very small
group of people so in their eyes they're
like man like JD is everywhere he's in
like I go to LinkedIn I see him I go to
Google I see him I go to YouTube like
everywhere but in the reality is like
you you're spending like 50 bucks a day
because you're my's basement you know
yeah exactly but
it's possible you know it's very
possible especially like a lot of uh
people selling courses online you know
like it's super possible this is a
coaching course for coaches exactly yeah
deception reality you know what I mean
it's such a big deal so for everyone
listening if it's not what you do but
it's how you do it and it's like think
about like all the intention behind each
one of these steps JD is going through
you know like these are the the it's the
death by the Thousand Cuts you know and
like that reference that analogy it's
like it's it's often times a lot of
small things that sink the boat it's not
just some big hole in the middle of the
boat you know what I mean once in a
while it's an ice mind but mostly once
in a while it is Titanic yeah shut
up um all right let's uh let's fly
through the remainder of these tips yes
yeah so eight tip tip number eight test
smart not random I was trying to come up
with a cool word play play there and I I
didn't I didn't do it but like just it's
like hey what if we you know do this
like it can't be random like you want to
pick your test now to be clear you
should be testing all the time
everywhere in your campaigns you're
testing ads you have these that perform
well you have these that didn't you
pause those you take the break Crums you
found you load new ads and you kind of
you know repeat this process you're
using one objective it's doing well you
decide changing to another objective you
have this audience and then You'
identify kind of a pocket within there
and you pull out a hero audience you
decide to test that um you know your
formats this isn't like a should we do
red or should we do blue you know this
isn't a that thing um this is like you
want to be smart about what you're
testing because you can't test
everything all the time it tends it can
get really
burdensome um so you want to be smart
about the things that you want to test
and you don't want to Stack tests so
what I mean by that is like I don't want
to like okay you know we're our
performance is here we're going to
change these three things and then see
if it improves the performance well
guess what if it makes it better or if
it makes it worse you don't know which
one of those three things you did
actually contributed to it so like
there's a reason why it's called AB
tests and not ABCDEFG tests you want to
be smart you know smart with that um
yeah yeah tip number nine that's a great
oh go ahead just to double double click
on that last point one really tactical
thing for people listening in terms of
experimentation and and kind of being
more mindful about what you're doing
doing is getting in the habit of like
writing down a hypothesis statement so
just to walk through what that looks
like it's if we do X I believe y as
measured by Z so if we switch from
Maximum delivery to manual bidding I
believe we can drive a lower cost per
thousand Impressions or cost per click
as measured in the LinkedIn EDS
interface yeah just like there's a great
quote from Albert Einstein it's like a
problem defined as a problem have solved
he's like he's like if I had an hour to
solve a problem I'd spend the first 55
minutes writing it down and defining it
and the last five minutes solving it and
there's so much truth to that because
oftentimes we just go to your point it's
like unconscious testing you know and
there's levels to everything it's like
yes you're going to there's natural
progression in an account but it's like
are you actually taking a step back and
saying like I love the analogy I forget
who said this but it's like the analogy
of like if you put a gun to my head and
you said make the thing work work like
kind of taking that frame like okay
we're doing a lot but are
these game changers right or are they
just like micro improvements and you
need both and like I think to your your
point just like to really iterate what
you're trying to say here is like really
think through like how can I how can I
have some big bets you know of like
tests worth worthwhile that can actually
drive the needle in a significant way
yeah yeah I think I don't want to like
beat a beat a dead horse here but like
yeah knowing the question is like most
important thing like what question to
ask what was it as was it uh I forget
what it is where the answer was 42 hitch
haacker guy to the Galaxy you ever see
that he's like what's the meaning of
universe and then the answer was like 42
and it's like okay well that's not
really helpful and like it's the
challenge was like figuring out what the
right question was to ask like that was
a hard part not the answer have you ever
seen that uh that that commercial it's
like how many licks does it take to get
to the center of a tits yes yeah the ow
that's what came to my head when you
said that yeah man that I was funny I
always laugh when I saw that thing like
as an adult I realized like there's just
an owl with a lollipop here just like
it's so Random yeah it's like the
that sticks in your mind you know what I
mean yeah I'm gonna remember that later
um all right uh tip nine tip nine keep
tabs on performance like again like this
is kind of like the other one where like
don't forget attribution like this is
like well duh I'm gonna keep tabs on uh
performance but like there's there's
things that you need to know like to
check like what what is the Cadence here
for checking on this like if you do a
new campaign like if I just launched a
campaign and I did something that I
think is a little bit risky you know I'm
like I wanna I'm curious to see like if
this plays out I'm probably gonna check
that a few times a day because you know
I don't want to get yelled at if uh if
I'm doing something or if I have
campaigns that are kind of like
established and this going to tie into
tip number 10 if I have things that are
uh kind of established that I'm looking
at like broader Trends uh over time
versus just kind of like a knee-jerk
reactions so like this this whole thing
keep tals on performance this isn't like
a this isn't like a license or me
advocating for you going in and like
testing things or making changes every
single day like don't don't do that like
if you were smart about how you built
this your campaign and you were smart
about identifying you know kind of your
main goal what you're trying to
accomplish and then what each thing
needs to play how each thing needs to
perform to kind of play into that um
then you know you know you know uh what
to look for in those campaigns to
measure the success um but you need it
to be statistically like significant if
a if an ad has spent five dollar don't
go pause the ad because it doesn't have
a click like you you want to you want to
measure these things but you want enough
data to actually draw like meaningful
insights on that now what is the magic
number I don't know maybe siio you know
like you have this kind of like you know
benchmark usually for me like at an ad
level if something spent like you know
about 100 bucks uh I will kind of like
okay I have enough data here unless it's
just like really really painfully
obvious that this one just sucks um that
I'll go through and kind of cut it out
but um the platform inside of LinkedIn
is getting better better in front of
like in terms of reporting if you are
using like you know agency analytics or
looker Studio or something else to kind
of you know visualize this that can be
helpful uh too but you need to be
monitoring this yeah totally all right
tip number 10 tip number 10 learn
improve repeat so once you you've built
your funnel so you have your
architecture you did all these things
you listen to this and you know you
played it back a few times or maybe read
the show notes um and you kind of like
built this out you're going to learn
things along the way um that things that
work things that don't work you're going
to develop kind of new hypothesis and
you're going to go through this kind of
cycle again and you're going to like
repeat this it's not there isn't some
like magic thing that you discover like
there's not like a destination that
you're reaching and you're just like ah
I finally hit it you know 50 million in
pipeline like now I can retire like you
know next quarter is going to roll
around and you're gonna have new targets
that you're gonna have to hit you know
maybe a lower budget I'm sorry if that's
you but like you're going to like repeat
this entire process and I'm gonna do a
reference just like you did Sylvio you
know that song uh it starts back at one
one make you fall in love with I don't
know if that's all the song is right and
then you start back at one like you just
go through this process um you know
again yeah that's it I love it guys if
you haven't gotten value you haven't
been listening uh just to do a quick
recap of all of our tips today tip
number one was to outline your variables
get clear on your budget your targeting
your tracking the constraints you've
been given in relation to your goals tip
number two was to whiteboard your funnel
so like actually pen to paper whatever
works for you I personally love like I'm
I'm a work better writing you know so I
write everything out and then from there
I send it to my design team and they
make it look pretty so whatever works
for you like whiteboard your funnel
number three is to set your campaign
goals now for each stage and understand
that each one is not meant to be judged
equally they all have their own job to
do I love the analogy of a team like
everyone has their objectives on that
team of like what they do in terms of
those different positions tip number
four was to create ads that match each
funnel stage have empathy for the user
and ask yourself you know if somebody
visited these Pages or they did these
actions depending on how you're reaching
them should they be seeing what you're
about to give them right would you want
to see that and I I love framing it from
that perspective tip number five was to
not forget attribution but also to kind
of forget attribution uh after a certain
point it just doesn't become productive
and make sure you know you have the the
basics covered but at the end of the day
don't let it become a crutch tip number
six is to get efficient before you get
fancy I love this one uh like kind of
what spoke to me when you're when you're
going through this JD is like you know
there's like minimum viable product I'm
thinking like minimum viable effort like
what is the minimum viable effort to get
a Reser like a return or like some sort
of signal like so many people are like
so quick to marry linkon you know
they're like we're going to invest 100
Grand and we're going to do seven step
strategy and all this it's like wait a
second like let's just do like minimum
viable effort let LinkedIn prove itself
to us and then we will give some more
and you kind of you kind of expand from
there so I love that tip number seven
was to retarget like a pro this is like
one of those things everybody hears are
like oh you got to retarget retargeting
blah blah blah but like they don't
actually do it and taking it a step
further like you talked about like hey
should somebody who went to your high
intent Pages 30 days ago see the same
thing as somebody that's been your
audience from now like I don't even know
what I did 180s ago you know what I mean
uh can you imagine them so so that's a
great frame tip number eight was to test
smart not random be mindful and remember
it's AB testing not ABC testing that's a
great way of saying it tip number nine
was to keep tabs on performance like you
don't want to set and forget this stuff
you want to make sure that this thing is
actually progressing and it's moving in
the right direction and then tip number
10 was to learn improve and repeat JD
this was incredible if people want to
connect with you where can they find you
find me on LinkedIn JD Garcia I don't
think there's very many of them uh and
certainly none that have LinkedIn their
headlines so I should be easy to find
awesome we will definitely have his
LinkedIn uh connected down below as well
as a write up of everything so thank you
so much for being here JD this was
awesome and everyone watching if you're
not subscribed right now which I know
you're not when I look at my YouTube
analytics please go ahead and hit that
subscribe button and like this video and
uh feel free to connect with JD and ask
any content and follow-ups on this video
thanks so much we'll see you in the next
one